.TH "G-CPAN.PL" "1" "Feb 2004" "Portage 2.0.51" "Portage"
.SH NAME
g-cpan \- install CPAN-provided Perl modules using Gentoo's Portage
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg-cpan.pl\fR 
[\ \fB\-a\fR\ | \fB\--ask\fR\ ] 
[\ \fB\-g\fR\ | \fB\--generate\fR\ ] 
[\ \fB\-i\fR\ | \fB\--install\fR\ ] 
[\ \fB\-l\fR\ | \fB\--list \fR\ ] 
[\ \fB\-p\fR\ | \fB\--pretend \fR\ ]
[\ \fB\-s\fR\ | \fB\--search \fR\ ]
[\ \fB\-u\fR\ | \fB\--upgrade \fR\ ]
[\ \fB\-v\fR\ | \fB\--verbose\fR\ ] 
<\fImodule-name\fR>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX HEADER "DESCRIPTION"
.B g-cpan
is a perl script that installs a CPAN module (including its
dependencies) using Gentoo's Portage.  It saves dependency information and 
stored files as if they were installed through a regular ebuild. 

.SH "CPAN CONFIGURATION"
.IX HEADER "CPAN CONFIGURATION"

\fB~/.cpan/CPAN/MyConfig.pm\fR

\fB/path/to/perl/CPAN/Config.pm\fR

When you run \fBg-cpan\fR, it will check for two configuration files. If you are root, it will check for the presense of an already configured CPAN under your perl install path. If CPAN is not configured, or you are not root, g-cpan will create a generic configuration for CPAN in ~/.cpan/CPAN/ called MyConfig.pm. You can modify this file as needed at any time.

The CPAN configuration file is used for interacting with CPAN, determining what modules are available, what modules are needed, and performing all basic CPAN functions.

.SH "G-CPAN AND OVERLAYS"
.IX HEADER "G-CPAN AND OVERLAYS"

\fBg-cpan\fR is now overlay "friendly." \fBg-cpan\fR will scan both the overlays provided in your make.conf
as well as any you have set via environment variables, to help determine its course of action. If you have 
defined overlays, \fBg-cpan\fR will use the first overlay in your list that the user running it can write to.
Any ebuilds generated by \fBg-cpan\fR will be stored in this overlay for future use (such as upgrading).

If no overlays are defined, or the user operating \fBg-cpan\fR cannot write to an overlay, then anything generated will be written to a temporary space and wiped on exit.

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.IX HEADER "ARGUMENTS"

.IP "\fB\-a,\-\-ask\fR" 4
.IX Item "-a,--ask"
Pass the "ask" argument to portage. This will cause portage to prompt you to confirm your installation prior to issuing an emerge

.IP "\fB\-g,\-\-generate\fR" 4
.IX Item "-g,--generate"
Generate ebuilds and drop them in the overlay, but never call portage. Useful for generating a tree of ebuilds without having permissions to portage.

.IP "\fB\-i,\-\-install\fR" 4
.IX Item "-i,--install"
Install the (list of) modules provided.

.IP "\fB\-l,\-\-list\fR" 4
.IX Item "-l,--list"
List ebuilds that have been generated by g-cpan and reside in your overlay.

.IP "\fB\-p,\-\-pretend\fR" 4
.IX Item "-p,--pretend"
Create ebuilds as needed for the (list of) modules provided, but don't perform the actual emerge.

.IP "\fB\-s,\-\-search\fR" 4
.IX Item "-s,--search"
Search CPAN for the provided module.

.IP "\fB\-u,\-\-upgrade\fR" 4
.IX Item "-u,--upgrade"
Attempt to upgrade any ebuilds generated by g-cpan to newer versions. This option will create new ebuilds for those that exist in your overlay already. If a module name is given, it will attempt to only upgrade the requested module. If no arguments are given, all modules in your g-cpan overlay will be checked.

.IP "\fB\-v,\-\-verbose\fR" 4
.IX Item "-v,--verbose"
Enable verbose mode for more feedback on the step by step processes that
g-cpan is running

.SH "USAGE"
.IX HEADER "USAGE"

.IP "Here we install Jabber::RPC" 4
# \fBg-cpan -i Jabber::RPC\fR

.IP "Performing a search" 4
# \fBg-cpan -s Clone::Any\fR

.IP "Upgrading overlay from g-cpan" 4
# \fBg-cpan -u\fR

.IP "Upgrading specifc ebuild in overlay from g-cpan" 4
# \fBg-cpan -u Mickey-Mouse\fR

.SH "TODO"
	Todo

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR emerge (1),
.BR ebuild (5),
.BR make.conf (5),
.BR perl (1)

.SH "AUTHORS"
mcummings <mcummings@gentoo.org>
.br
cab <cab@dragou.net>
.br
sniper <sniper@mongueurs.net>
.br
beu <beu@gentoo.org>
.br
J Robert Ray <jrray@gentoo.org> (g-cpan.pl)
.br
RAC <rac@gentoo.org> 
.br
Sven Vermeulen <swift@gentoo.org> (Original manpage)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/ or https://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "CVS HEADER"
$Header: $
